CodeBook.md, before:

# Description of the dataset

## Features used in the study

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc-XYZ
- tGravityAcc-XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- tBodyGyro-XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc-XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- fBodyGyro-XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean(): Mean value
- std(): Standard deviation
- mad(): Median absolute deviation 
- max(): Largest value in array
- min(): Smallest value in array
- sma(): Signal magnitude area
- energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
- iqr(): Interquartile range 
- entropy(): Signal entropy
- arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
- correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
- maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
- meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
- skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
- kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
- bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
- angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

- gravityMean
- tBodyAccMean
- tBodyAccJerkMean
- tBodyGyroMean
- tBodyGyroJerkMean

===============================================================================================

# Transformations performed

The R script performs the following tasks:
- Loads data.table package
- Loads the general text files provided about features and activity labels
- Add column names to the features and activity labels
- Loads training and test datasets along with their respective subject and activity label text files
- Subject and activity labels are respectively merged with the training and test data sets
- The training and test sets are then merged
- A smaller dataset is extracted which only contains mean and standard deviation values
- Column names are made meaningful. **mean()** is replaced with **mean**, while **std()** is replaced by **stddeviation**
- Calculations for mean are performed for each subject and activity and stored in a new data table using the data.table tools
- Finally the datatable is written into a text file in the working directory

Commit message:

Comment about adding activity names

CodeBook.md, after:

# Description of the dataset

## Features used in the study

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

- tBodyAcc-XYZ
- tGravityAcc-XYZ
- tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- tBodyGyro-XYZ
- tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
- tBodyAccMag
- tGravityAccMag
- tBodyAccJerkMag
- tBodyGyroMag
- tBodyGyroJerkMag
- fBodyAcc-XYZ
- fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
- fBodyGyro-XYZ
- fBodyAccMag
- fBodyAccJerkMag
- fBodyGyroMag
- fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

- mean(): Mean value
- std(): Standard deviation
- mad(): Median absolute deviation 
- max(): Largest value in array
- min(): Smallest value in array
- sma(): Signal magnitude area
- energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
- iqr(): Interquartile range 
- entropy(): Signal entropy
- arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
- correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
- maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
- meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
- skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
- kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
- bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
- angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

- gravityMean
- tBodyAccMean
- tBodyAccJerkMean
- tBodyGyroMean
- tBodyGyroJerkMean

===============================================================================================

# Transformations performed

The R script performs the following tasks:
- Loads data.table package
- Loads the general text files provided about features and activity labels
- Add column names to the features and activity labels
- Loads training and test datasets along with their respective subject and activity label text files
- Subject and activity labels are respectively merged with the training and test data sets
- The training and test sets are then merged
- A smaller dataset is extracted which only contains mean and standard deviation values
- Column names are made meaningful. **mean()** is replaced with **mean**, while **std()** is replaced by **stddeviation**
- Calculations for mean are performed for each subject and activity and stored in a new data table using the data.table tools
- Activity names are added to the final data 
- Finally the data table is written into a text file in the working directory
